packages/scaffold-mcp/src/instructions/prompts/generate-feature-scaffold.md, before:

You are helping create a new feature scaffold configuration using the scaffold-mcp MCP tools.

{% if request %}User request: {{ request }}
{% endif %}
Your task:

1. **Gather Information**: Ask for any missing details:
   {% if not isMonolith %}- Template name (e.g., "nextjs-15", "react-vite"){% else %}- Template name (will be auto-detected from toolkit.yaml){% endif %}
   - Feature name (prefixed with "scaffold-", e.g., "scaffold-nextjs-page")
   - Feature type (page, component, service, etc.)
   - Variables needed
   - Files to include

2. **Use MCP Tools** in order:
   - `generate-feature-scaffold` - Creates the feature configuration
   - `generate-boilerplate-file` - Creates each template file
   - `list-scaffolding-methods` - Verify it appears
   - `use-scaffold-method` - Test the feature

Important:
- Feature names: prefix with "scaffold-"
- Conditional includes: use "file.tsx?withLayout=true"
- Template syntax: use {{ variableName }}
{% if isMonolith %}- Template name will be auto-detected from toolkit.yaml{% endif %}

**Description Field Guidelines (CRITICAL)**:
The description should explain what the feature scaffold generates (2-3 sentences):
- Sentence 1: What type of code it generates (component, page, service, etc.)
- Sentence 2: Key features or capabilities included
- Sentence 3: Primary use cases or when to use it

Example:
"Generate a new service class for TypeScript libraries following best practices. Creates a service class with interface, implementation, and unit tests. Perfect for creating reusable service modules with dependency injection patterns."

**Instruction Field Guidelines (CRITICAL)**:
The instruction should provide specific guidance for using the generated feature:

1. **Pattern explanation**: Describe the architectural pattern used
2. **File organization**: Where files should be placed
3. **Naming conventions**: How to name things (PascalCase, camelCase, etc.)
4. **Usage guidelines**: How to use the generated code
5. **Testing approach**: How to test the feature

Example structure:
"[Feature type] follow a [pattern name] pattern with [key characteristics].
[Explanation of how it works and integrates with the project].
Place [files] in [directory].
For [features with X], define [Y] in [Z] for better separation of concerns.
[Feature names] should be [case style] and [suffix/prefix rules].
Write comprehensive [tests/docs] for all [public methods/exports]."

Keep it concise but informative - focus on the patterns and conventions that AI needs to understand to work with the generated code effectively.

Template File Content Guidelines:
- Keep content MINIMAL and business-agnostic
- Focus on structure and patterns, not business logic
- Use placeholder/generic examples only
- Include essential boilerplate code only
- Let AI fill in specific logic later
- Add clear headers with design patterns and coding standards

Commit message:

feat(scaffold-mcp): add --prompt-as-skill option for Claude Code skill front matter
Add support for rendering prompts with YAML front matter for Claude Code skills:

- Add --prompt-as-skill CLI option to mcp-serve command
- Refactor all prompt classes to use Zod-typed options object
- Update all prompt templates with conditional promptAsSkill front matter
- Add descriptive skill descriptions to help AI pick the right skill
- Update tests to use new options object constructor signature

Templates updated:
- scaffold-feature: Add features to existing projects
- scaffold-application: Create new projects from boilerplates
- generate-boilerplate: Create boilerplate template configurations (admin)
- generate-feature-scaffold: Create feature scaffold configurations (admin)

packages/scaffold-mcp/src/instructions/prompts/generate-feature-scaffold.md, after:

{% if promptAsSkill %}---
name: generate-feature-scaffold
description: Create a new feature scaffold configuration for adding features to existing projects. Use this skill when the user wants to define a reusable feature template (e.g., page, component, service, API route) that can be used to add functionality to projects of a specific type. This is an admin/developer tool for creating the feature scaffold definitions themselves, not for using existing scaffolds. It generates feature configurations in scaffold.yaml and template files with Liquid syntax and conditional includes.
---

{% endif %}You are helping create a new feature scaffold configuration using the scaffold-mcp MCP tools.

{% if request %}User request: {{ request }}
{% endif %}
Your task:

1. **Gather Information**: Ask for any missing details:
   {% if not isMonolith %}- Template name (e.g., "nextjs-15", "react-vite"){% else %}- Template name (will be auto-detected from toolkit.yaml){% endif %}
   - Feature name (prefixed with "scaffold-", e.g., "scaffold-nextjs-page")
   - Feature type (page, component, service, etc.)
   - Variables needed
   - Files to include

2. **Use MCP Tools** in order:
   - `generate-feature-scaffold` - Creates the feature configuration
   - `generate-boilerplate-file` - Creates each template file
   - `list-scaffolding-methods` - Verify it appears
   - `use-scaffold-method` - Test the feature

Important:
- Feature names: prefix with "scaffold-"
- Conditional includes: use "file.tsx?withLayout=true"
- Template syntax: use {{ variableName }}
{% if isMonolith %}- Template name will be auto-detected from toolkit.yaml{% endif %}

**Description Field Guidelines (CRITICAL)**:
The description should explain what the feature scaffold generates (2-3 sentences):
- Sentence 1: What type of code it generates (component, page, service, etc.)
- Sentence 2: Key features or capabilities included
- Sentence 3: Primary use cases or when to use it

Example:
"Generate a new service class for TypeScript libraries following best practices. Creates a service class with interface, implementation, and unit tests. Perfect for creating reusable service modules with dependency injection patterns."

**Instruction Field Guidelines (CRITICAL)**:
The instruction should provide specific guidance for using the generated feature:

1. **Pattern explanation**: Describe the architectural pattern used
2. **File organization**: Where files should be placed
3. **Naming conventions**: How to name things (PascalCase, camelCase, etc.)
4. **Usage guidelines**: How to use the generated code
5. **Testing approach**: How to test the feature

Example structure:
"[Feature type] follow a [pattern name] pattern with [key characteristics].
[Explanation of how it works and integrates with the project].
Place [files] in [directory].
For [features with X], define [Y] in [Z] for better separation of concerns.
[Feature names] should be [case style] and [suffix/prefix rules].
Write comprehensive [tests/docs] for all [public methods/exports]."

Keep it concise but informative - focus on the patterns and conventions that AI needs to understand to work with the generated code effectively.

Template File Content Guidelines:
- Keep content MINIMAL and business-agnostic
- Focus on structure and patterns, not business logic
- Use placeholder/generic examples only
- Include essential boilerplate code only
- Let AI fill in specific logic later
- Add clear headers with design patterns and coding standards
